# National Science Foundation Software Infrastructure for Sustained Innovation (SI2) supported projects
The overarching goal of this program is to transform innovations in research and education into sustained software resources that are an integral part of the cyberinfrastructure.

## HydroShare
HydroShare is a system operated by The Consortium of Universities for the Advancement of Hydrologic Science Inc. (CUAHSI) that enables users to share and publish data and models in a variety of flexible formats, and to make this information available in a citable, shareable and discoverable manner.  HydroShare includes a repository for data and models, and tools (web apps) that can act on content in HydroShare providing users with a gateway to high performance computing and computing in the cloud. [Visit HydroShare](https://www.hydroshare.org)

## RAPID Collaborative Research: Building infrastructure to prevent disasters like Hurricane Maria
Recovery efforts from natural disasters can be more efficient with data-driven information on the current needs and future risks. We aim to advance open-source software infrastructure to support scientific investigation with a prototype system developed for post-Hurricane Maria drinking water contamination in Puerto Rico.  We are developing a unique data archive to allow us to generate testable hypotheses on how the severity of a hazard to human health and well-being is related to the sophistication, connectivity, and operations of the physical and digital infrastructure systems.  [Visit our project Wiki](https://github.com/hydroshare/PuertoRicoWaterStudies/wiki)

## Landlab
Landlab is a Python-based modeling environment that allows scientists and students to build numerical landscape models. Designed for disciplines that quantify earth surface dynamics such as geomorphology, hydrology, glaciology, and stratigraphy, it can also be used in related fields.  Landlab provides components to compute flows (such as water, sediment, glacial ice, volcanic material, or landslide debris) across a gridded terrain. With its robust, reusable components, Landlab allows scientists to quickly build landscape model experiments and compute mass balance across scales. [VIsit Landlab.](http://landlab.github.io/#/)

## PREEVENTS  
Although flooding is typically attributed to heavy precipitation, there is growing evidence that floods are often caused by excess sediment from retreating glaciers, droughts, wildfires, land-use changes and extreme rainfall. The sediment, which comes in various forms such as pebbles, sand or mud, and even boulders, can build up over time and prevent a river channel from containing excess floodwater.  Our research will introduce a dynamic perspective for flood prediction, integrating earth, atmospheric and ecosystem science with engineering. Existing flood prediction technology neglects the contribution of geomorphic events on flood risk. The challenge is that sedimentation events are random in nature and their timing and magnitude are not easily predictable. The grant is part of [NSF’s PREEVENTS program](https://www.nsf.gov/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=242941), which is funding projects that aim to improve natural hazards predictability and resilience in order to better protect human lives. The program funds research on a variety of natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires and extreme precipitation. 

# University of Washington Freshwater Community Development
As a partnership with Pacific Northwest, national and global partners, Freshwater at the University of Washington is intended to promote community interaction and generates new interdisciplinary research directions within the entire water sciences community.  The purpose of Freshwater is to advance freshwater science and engineering at the intersection of society and freshwater systems. Our vision is to foster leadership in freshwater science by connecting observations, models, and analyses with those communities responsible for freshwater decisions.  We develop research, educational activities, analytical tools, data collection resources, community collaborations, and technical expertise to build understanding and address critical challenges in Freshwater.
